[MUSIC PLAYING]
ADDY OSMANI: Hey, Matt.
ROB DODSON: Hey, Addy.
How's it going?
ADDY OSMANI: It's good.
It's good.
Did you get a haircut?
ROB DODSON: I did, a haircut,
new accent, new look, new feel.
ADDY OSMANI: It's good.
You're looking
better than before.
You feel better than before?
ROB DODSON: I feel
good, yeah, yeah
ADDY OSMANI: You're not Matt.
I am not.
ROB DODSON: No,
hi, I'm Rob Dodson.
I'm a developer advocate
on the Chrome team.
ADDY OSMANI: Sure Rob,
just sell yourself.
ROB DODSON: Hello, hello.
And also, if we're
selling stuff,
I also host a little show on
the Chrome Developers YouTube
channel called
A11ycasts, world renown.
ADDY OSMANI: Is that
what we're calling it?
ROB DODSON: Yes, world renowned.
ADDY OSMANI: I see.
ROB DODSON: People around
the world have renowned it,
I think.
ADDY OSMANI: OK,
all right, believe
what you want to believe.
But today, we're
going to be talking
about accessibility
auditing, right?
ROB DODSON: Yes.
ADDY OSMANI: What does your
workflow for that look like?
ROB DODSON: Yeah, so
over here on my laptop,
I've got a site that
I've been working on.
So this is called Lifestyle.
It's got some cool hipster
photos and stuff like that.
People living.
ADDY OSMANI: Lifestyles of
the accessible and famous?
ROB DODSON: Indeed, yeah, yeah.
And what I usually
do when I'm working
on improving the
accessibility of a site
is I will use the new Audits
panel in Chrome Dev Tools,
which is very, very nice.
If you go to create
a new audit, you'll
see that you've got a number
of options inside of there.
So you could look at PWAness,
best practices, et cetera.
One of the topic areas
is accessibility.
So you can just go run just
an accessibility audit,
if you don't feel like
doing the other tests.
Here's one that I
ran against the page.
And it's doing pretty OK, right?
It's got a 91, not so bad.
But there's definitely a few
issues that we need to fix.
And in particular, one that I
see a lot is color contrast.
So you've got your foreground
text maybe is little too
light on the background color.
One of the nice things that we
can do with the Audits panel
is we can actually dive in.
And we can see which
elements specifically
have failing contrast.
So here, I can see that I've
got this product card price
element.
And if I click on that and
stretch this out a little bit,
you can see it will take me
over to my Elements panel.
And I can actually scroll in
to view the actual element that
is failing, which is
this price right here.
ADDY OSMANI: Nice,
and it already selects
the DOM node for you?
ROB DODSON: Mm-hmm.
ADDY OSMANI: That's cool.
ROB DODSON: Yeah.
And so one of the things
that's really helpful
is not only does this is
allow me to quickly identify
this node, but one of the
things we're working on,
which is over here in
Chrome Canary right now,
is actually a color
picker that will
make it a little bit easier
for you to fix those contract
issues.
So if you're in something
like Chrome Canary,
you can go into Chrome://flags.
And you can look for the word
Developer Tools Experiments.
ADDY OSMANI: So you're
in flags and experiments.
You like to live dangerously.
ROB DODSON: Oh yeah, oh yeah.
ADDY OSMANI: So dangerously?
ROB DODSON: So dangerously.
So we enable the Developer
Tools Experiments, right?
We step into the future.
It will refresh
our browser for us.
We can go back over here,
pop up open the Dev Tools,
click on this little
Settings menu,
go to where it
says Experiments--
dun dun dun-- and
here we can see
we've got Accessibility
Inspection as well
as Color Contrast Ratio Line.
So let's see what that does.
So we'll go find that same
node that was giving us
problems over here, inspect it.
And then, we can see,
in our Styles panel,
I've got a little color swatch.
I can click on that.
And now, you'll see that
there is this little line
inside of my color palette.
ADDY OSMANI: Fancy.
ROB DODSON: So this
was actually telling us
where are our colors need
to be in order to have
sufficient color contrast.
So since we're
above the line, we
get this little warning that
says we've got low contrast.
I happen to know
that this is not
the final look for
this piece of UI.
It's still being iterated on.
But it'll be something like
this, where you've got a line.
And you can tell which side is
the good side or the bad side.
So I can actually just
drag this below the line.
And that warning goes away.
You can see over here it's
also updating my element live
in the document.
And it'll tell me what the
good color contrast ratio is.
So I can just grab that value
right off here, and then
go back, and just
fix it in my CSS.
ADDY OSMANI: That's pretty neat.
So I was trying this
out the other week.
And something that
occurred to me
was that, if you,
as a developer,
realize the contrast
is a little bit off,
do you need to go back to
your designers at that point
and say, well, is this OK
for our brand and everything?
Is that's something that
should be factored in
earlier on in the process?
ROB DODSON: Ideally, yeah.
There's definitely other
design tools out there.
I think there's
plug-ins for Sketch
and things like
that, which will also
help you look at the color
contrast for your designs
and make sure things are
not too low contrast.
Anytime you can catch that
earlier in the process,
make sure all the
designers are on board,
and all the stakeholders
are on board,
and that makes it easier when
those things come downstream
for folks to implement it.
And it doesn't become a
contentious issue or anything.
ADDY OSMANI: Cool,
that's awesome.
The Lighthouse audit also had
some other accessibility stuff
in there as well, right?
So it had contrast.
It was highlighting
alt attributes, too?
ROB DODSON: Alt
attributes, yeah.
So Yeah, if we go back to
that report, let's see here.
So yeah, a few of the things
that this site was failing--
it's missing some
alt attributes.
We've got form elements that
don't have associated labels.
The big problem there is
you land on a control.
And maybe it says
that it's a button.
But it doesn't tell you
what kind of button, right?
Is it the send my
social security number
to hackers button?
I don't want to click
that button, right?
I want to make sure
that I'm clicking
the right kind of controls and I
know what I'm interacting with.
We've got over, I think, 32
tests, or maybe even 35 tests
in the Lighthouse
Accessibility Checker here.
And under the hood,
these tests are all
based on a library
called aXe-core,
which is made by
some folks at Deque.
So yeah, we work with
aXe-core library.
We leveraged the test
from inside of it.
And we integrated
it into Dev Tools.
So you can hop around and
inspect the nodes real quick.
ADDY OSMANI: That's awesome.
So this is great, again,
for locally checking
on your accessibility issues.
What about CI and continuously
monitoring your accessibility?
Is there a story for that, too?
ROB DODSON: Yeah, absolutely.
So the Lighthouse library
itself can be used
as a standalone node module.
So you can pull that
into your Ci process,
if you want to do that.
Or alternatively, you could
use the aXe-core library
that is powering these tests.
And you could use
that standalone.
The nice thing there is you
can decide which accessibility
tests you want to turn on or
off, depending on the criteria
that you're trying to meet
ADDY OSMANI: Very cool.
So we've got lots
of great tooling
for accessibility auditing.
What about docs or
educational material?
ROB DODSON: Yes, we
have that as well.
So if you go to developers.googl
e.com/web/fundam
entals/accessibility, we have a
whole section there on getting
started with
accessibility for the web.
And it also includes links
to our Udacity course.
So that's a multi-week hands on
experience, where you actually
build stuff, and watch
a bunch of videos,
and up to speed
on accessibility.
ADDY OSMANI: Very cool.
I feel like my lifestyle
is more accessible.
ROB DODSON: Already, yeah.
Cool, yeah, thanks
for having me today.
ADDY OSMANI: Yeah,
thanks for coming down.
ROB DODSON: Awesome, yeah.
ADDY OSMANI: People should
check out A11ycasts.
ROB DODSON: Oh yeah, oh yeah.
[MUSIC PLAYING]